Man: WE ARE WIRING
AMERICA'S SCHOOLS.
Boy: IT'S FUN, IT'S EXCITING.
Man: YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT KIDS.
Girl: SOME PEOPLE DON'T KNOW
HOW TO TURN A COMPUTER ON.
Boy: IT'S SOMETHING THAT
THE WHITE KIDS DO.
Girl: THERE ARE ONLY BOYS
IN THAT CLASS.
Man: 24 BOYS AND NO GIRLS.
Child: THE FUTURE IS HERE,
IT'S JUST NOT
EVENLY DISTRIBUTED.
Woman: YOU CAN'T GET A JOB
IF YOU CAN'T RUN A COMPUTER.
Woman: A COMPUTER'S
LIKE A LUXURY TO US.
Girl: IT'S A WONDERFUL THING,
BUT NOT EVERYBODY'S
GOING TO GET TO HAVE IT.
FOR THE VERY FIRST TIME
IN OUR HISTORY,
IT IS NOW POSSIBLE
FOR A CHILD IN THE MOST ISOLATED
INNER CITY NEIGHBORHOOD
OR RURAL COMMUNITY
TO HAVE ACCESS TO THE SAME
WORLD OF KNOWLEDGE,
AT THE SAME INSTANT AS THE CHILD
IN THE MOST AFFLUENT SUBURB.
IF WE REALLY BELIEVE
THAT WE ALL BELONG
IN THE INFORMATION AGE,
WE CAN'T LEAVE ANYONE BEHIND
IN THE DARK.
EVERY CHILD IN AMERICA DESERVES
A CHANCE TO PARTICIPATE
IN THE INFORMATION REVOLUTION.
COMPUTERS ARE THE WAVE
OF THE FUTURE,
WITHOUT A COMPUTER,
YOU'RE NOWHERE.
A COMPUTER IS, LIKE,
HOW YOU CONTROL EVERYTHING.
IF YOU DIDN'T, IF YOU DON'T KNOW
HOW TO WORK THE COMPUTER,
YOU MIGHT AS WELL SAY YOU
DON'T KNOW HOW TO WORK NOTHING.
TECHNOLOGY IS
THE GREAT EQUALIZER.
WHAT A JOKE,
THAT'S A TOTAL JOKE.
NOW, YOU CAN'T BE EQUAL
IF YOU DON'T HAVE THE EQUIPMENT.
TECHNOLOGY, UM, TECHNOLOGY
IS BUILDING UP EVERY DAY,
SO YOU NEVER KNOW WHAT YOU'RE
GOING TO HAVE TO LEARN TO USE.
I DON'T EVEN SEE US
ON THE SERVICE RAMP
OF THIS INFORMATION HIGHWAY.
AND SO, IF YOU WERE TO ASK ME
WHETHER WE'RE LIVING
IN A VIRTUAL GHETTO,
I WOULD HAVE TO CONCLUDE
BY SAYING YES.
YEAH, EVERYBODY SHOULD KNOW HOW
TO USE A COMPUTER,
BECAUSE IF YOU DON'T,
YOU ARE GOING TO BE LOST
OR LEFT BEHIND.
Taylor: FOR MANY
OF AMERICA'S CHILDREN,
ACCESS TO TECHNOLOGY
IS A GIVEN.
BUT LIMITED ACCESS TO COMPUTERS
IN OUR INNER CITIES
IS KEEPING SOME CHILDREN
FROM PARTICIPATING
IN THE INFORMATION AGE.
THESE ARE STORIES
ABOUT KIDS, COMPUTERS,
AND WHO GETS TO DRIVE
ON THE INFORMATION HIGHWAY.
iPIRAGUA, PIRAGUA, PIRAGUA!
MY NAME IS GERALDO RIVERA.
I LIVE IN EL BARRIO
AND I AM...
11 YEARS OLD.
THE REASON I DON'T LIKE
MY NEIGHBORHOOD
IS BECAUSE THERE'S
A LOT OF VIOLENCE.
THE REASON I LIKE IT?
BECAUSE I HAVE FRIENDS THERE.
Girl: HEY, WHAT UP?
DAVID, COME HERE.
Geraldo:
I LIVE WITH MY MOTHER,
MY SISTERS, AND ME.
MY PARENTS ARE FROM PUERTO RICO
AND I SPEAK A LOT OF SPANISH
IN MY HOUSE.
I'M SORRY.
IT WOULD HAVE TO BE
MY SON.
COME ON.
ONE, TWO BITES.
Geraldo: SOME OF MY FAVORITE
THINGS TO DO IS
TO GO ON THE COMPUTER,
PLAY VIDEO GAMES,
UM, AND WATCH TV.
WHEN THEY HIT THE WALL,
TRY TO GET THEM ON THE WALL.
Boy: THERE'S A LEVEL
LIKE THIS.
Man: MY FIRST SORT OF REAL VIVID
MEMORIES OF COMPUTERS
ARE PLAYING, LIKE,
PONG, ON, YOU KNOW,
PLUGGED INTO THE TV SET,
BUT REALLY BECAME ADDICTED
TO VIDEO GAMES
AND WANTED TO BE ABLE TO SEE
WHAT WAS ON THE,
SORT OF, OTHER SIDE
OF THE MONITOR,
WHAT WAS GOING ON
BEHIND THE SCREEN.
AND, UM, SNUCK MY WAY OUT
OF WOODSHOP IN JUNIOR HIGH
AND BEGGED MY WAY
INTO COMPUTER SHOP.
MY PARENTS ALSO SAW THAT I WAS
REALLY INTERESTED IN THIS,
AND THEY WENT OUT AND THEY GOT
SOMETHING CALLED A VIC-20,
WHICH WAS A $100
PLASTIC KEYBOARD
THAT YOU PLUG INTO A TV SET.
I ALSO GOT A $12
MAGAZINE SUBSCRIPTION
TO A MAGAZINE CALLED COMPUTE,
AND THOSE COMBINATION
OF THINGS
SORT OF ALLOWED ME
TO LEARN A LITTLE IN CLASS
AND THEN TEACH MYSELF
A LOT MORE ON MY OWN.
Girl: I THINK YOU'VE HAD
A LITTLE TOO MUCH EDUCATION.
MY NAME IS KRYSTAL PEREZ
AND I'M 14 YEARS OLD.
MY PARENTS ARE FROM PUERTO RICO.
MY MOM AND I DO
MAINLY EVERYTHING TOGETHER.
SHE COMES WITH ME
TO MY SALSA AND MAMBO CLASSES,
WE GO SHOPPING TOGETHER,
WE SPEND QUALITY TIME TOGETHER.
♪ BELIEVE ♪
♪ I BELIEVE ♪♪
Man: 2, 4, GET OUT,
8, 1, 2
AND 6, 1-2.
LAST ONE, DO IT AGAIN.
1, 2, 3, 4...
Krystal: AFTER SCHOOL
ON THURSDAYS AND FRIDAYS,
I GO TO DANCE CLASS.
AND, WELL, I TAKE SALSA
AND MAMBO CLASSES.
1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8.
1, GET OUT, 6, 7, 8, 1-2.
6, 2, AGAIN.
1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8.
1, GET OUT.
6.
RIGHT NOW, THEY'RE PREPARING ME
FOR MY SWEET 16,
WHICH, HOPEFULLY,
I'M GOING TO HAVE NEXT YEAR.
AND I HOPE IT'S
GOING TO BE REAL FUN.
I WANT IT TO BE
LIKE MY SISTER'S --
WE HAD A BLAST.
WHEN I GROW UP, WOW, THERE'S
A LOT OF THINGS I WANT TO BE.
I WANT TO BE
EITHER A VETERINARIAN,
A DOCTOR, A LAWYER,
A PROFESSIONAL DANCER,
OR AN ACCOUNTANT.
Woman: THE WORK ENVIRONMENT
WAS A RUDE AWAKENING FOR ME.
NOBODY PREPARED ME,
NOBODY IN MY FAMILY
WORKED IN CORPORATE AMERICA,
SO I HAD NO IDEA WHAT IT
WAS REALLY GOING TO BE LIKE.
I'M ALL PUMPED UP, YOU KNOW,
I GOT THIS DEGREE,
I'M READY TO GO,
AND I GET OUT THERE,
AND EVERY TIME I GO
TO INTERVIEW SOMEWHERE,
I WOULD NEVER SEE
PEOPLE OF COLOR.
THE FIRST COMPANY I LANDED AT,
MY MANAGER ACTUALLY WAS
AN AFRICAN AMERICAN MAN,
BUT HE AND I WERE IT,
SO IT WAS VERY DIFFERENT.
I ENDED UP WORKING NEXT TO
A WOMAN, UM, CAUCASIAN WOMAN
WHO DID NOT HAVE
A COMPUTER SCIENCE DEGREE,
GOT OUT OF SCHOOL
THE SAME TIME I DID,
AND SHE WAS MAKING ABOUT $10,000
MORE A YEAR THAN I WAS.
AND I'M THINKING,
"WAIT A MINUTE,
THERE'S SOMETHING WRONG
WITH THIS PICTURE HERE."
BUT THAT WAS MY FIRST EXPERIENCE
WITH CORPORATE AMERICA,
AND IT STUCK WITH ME.
Girl: I THIS
THE FIRST PAGE?
YEAH, THERE'S TWO PAGES
COMING AROUND.
THIS IS OUR LAST
SOCIAL ISSUES ARTICLE.
HOW MANY POLICE BRUTALITY
ARTICLES DO WE HAVE?
Boy: LIKE, SEVEN.
Girl: WE HAVE, LIKE, NINE.
Teacher: NINE?
OKAY, SO WHY DON'T WE READ
THIS ARTICLE TOGETHER,
OR AT LEAST PART OF IT,
AND GET THE MAIN POINT.
YOU CAN START.
AND THEN, I'M GOING TO GIVE YOU
TIME TO WORK ON YOUR OWN.
AND I ALREADY HAVE KRYSTAL
ON A COMPUTER
AND JAVIER ON A COMPUTER,
AND POSSIBLY, WE CAN SEE
IF THERE'S ANY COMPUTERS
AVAILABLE
IN THE LIBRARY, OKAY?
Krystal: THE COMPUTERS
IN MY SCHOOL
ARE IN THE LIBRARY
AND IN THE CLASSES.
I HAVE TWO
IN MY MATH SCIENCE CLASS,
ONE IN MY HUMANITIES CLASS,
AND ONE IN MY SPANISH CLASS.
YES, I WISH MY SCHOOL
HAD MORE COMPUTERS.
THAT WAY, IT WOULD BE EASIER
FOR ME AND OTHER KIDS
TO USE THE COMPUTERS WHEN WE
HAVE TO DO OUR REPORTS.
Teacher:
JOSE, LET MARIA IN.
I THINK
AFTER SOME POINT,
I DON'T THINK YOU SHOULD
DO IT AFTER SOME POINT.
Krystal: NO, I DON'T HAVE
A COMPUTER AT HOME,
BUT I WANT ONE.
HOPEFULLY, I'M GOING TO
TRY TO GET ONE.
TO DO MY HOMEWORK
AND MY EXHIBITIONS
AND MY REPORTS,
I HAVE TO GO TO THE LIBRARY,
AND WHEN I CAN'T HAVE
A COMPUTER TO USE,
MY GRADE GOES DOWN.
I CAN'T REALLY, UH, FINISH
THE PAPER AND HAND IT IN,
SO MY GRADE GOES DOWN.
WHEN I CAN'T HAVE TIME
ON THE COMPUTER,
IT MAKES ME FEEL BAD,
BECAUSE, YOU KNOW,
I DID A GOOD JOB
WRITING THE FIRST DRAFT
AND A COUPLE OF DRAFTS
OF THE EXHIBITIONS AND REPORTS,
AND I FEEL SO BAD THAT I CAN'T
HAVE IT IN MY PORTFOLIO,
TYPED UP RIGHT THERE AND THEN,
RIGHT WHEN I FINISH IT.
UM, AS FAR AS THE GRADE GOES,
I DON'T THINK IT'S FAIR,
BUT IT'S WHAT TEACHERS DO --
THEY HAVE TO.
IT'S, LIKE, TO SHOW THE KIDS
THAT THEY HAVE TO
GET RIGHT ON IT,
TO DO THINGS, YOU KNOW.
Man: THE ISSUE OF POVERTY
PREVENTS MANY PEOPLE,
YOU KNOW, TO REALLY
HAVE ACCESS TO THE THINGS
THAT MIDDLE CLASS COMMUNITIES
TAKE FOR GRANTED.
WHEN FAMILIES,
PUERTO RICAN
AND LATINO FAMILIES
ARE TRYING TO SURVIVE
ON A DAY-TO-DAY BASIS,
IN TERMS OF JUST BASIC
SUSTENANCE FOR A FAMILY,
TECHNOLOGY IS NOT NECESSARILY
IN THE FOREFRONT
OF A FAMILY'S LIFE.
FINANCIALLY, SOME PEOPLE
CAN'T AFFORD IT,
THEY HAVE TO MAKE DECISIONS
LIKE PAYING YOUR RENT
OR GETTING FOOD
ON YOUR TABLE,
SO IT'S VERY HARD SOMETIMES.
Taylor: DESPITE
SOME RECENT GAINS,
SCHOOLS IN URBAN COMMUNITIES
STILL HAVE FEWER COMPUTERS
THAN THEIR SUBURBAN
COUNTERPARTS.
LIMITED COMPUTER ACCESS
OFTEN TRANSLATES INTO
LIMITED JOB SKILLS
FOR THE DIGITAL MARKETPLACE.
SO IF YOU CAN'T USE
A COMPUTER AT SCHOOL,
WHERE DO YOU GO?
Woman: ON THE ONE HAND,
HOME ACCESS IS VERY IMPORTANT,
AND THERE ARE A NUMBER OF WAYS
AND PROGRAMS
THAT CAN BE DEVELOPED
IN ORDER TO ENCOURAGE
AND TO GUARANTEE ACCESS,
PARTICULARLY TO ALL STUDENTS
IN THIS COUNTRY.
BUT IT'S ALSO VERY IMPORTANT
TO ENSURE COMMUNITY ACCESS,
BECAUSE FOR MANY INDIVIDUALS
IN OUR SOCIETY,
PARTICULARLY STUDENTS,
AND FOR POOR STUDENTS,
AND POOR MINORITY STUDENTS,
WHO ARE IN THE WORST SHAPE
WITH RESPECT TO ACCESS
AND USE IN THIS COUNTRY,
IT'LL BE VERY IMPORTANT TO
STIMULATE LOCAL ACCESS POINTS.
FOR EXAMPLE,
THROUGH COMMUNITY CENTERS,
THROUGH LIBRARIES
WITH INTERNET ACCESS,
AND THINGS OF THAT NATURE.
ARE THE EFFORTS THAT SCHOOLS
AND LIBRARIES ARE MAKING
TO DELIVER TECHNOLOGY
TO STUDENTS ENOUGH?
NO, I THINK THAT THEY'RE NOT --
AT THE CURRENT TIME,
SPECIFICALLY IN LARGE
URBAN ENVIRONMENTS,
YOU HAVE AN AVERAGE OF
A 45-MINUTE INSTRUCTIONAL PERIOD
THAT STUDENTS HAVE ACCESS
TO A COMPUTER LAB.
AND IN A LIBRARY, WE HAVE
HALF-HOUR TIME SLOTS
AND PERHAPS YOU CAN GET ONE
EVERY DAY, OR EVERY OTHER DAY.
THAT'S STILL NOT ENOUGH TIME
TO REALLY BECOME ACCLIMATED
TO THE TECHNOLOGY,
UNDERSTAND IT, AND BE ABLE
TO USE IT EFFECTIVELY.
Lopez: UNIVERSAL ACCESS
IS GREAT IN THEORY.
HOWEVER, WHEN RESOURCES
FOR UNIVERSAL ACCESS
ARE TARGETED TO SCHOOLS
AND PUBLIC LIBRARIES,
OUR YOUNG PEOPLE DO NOT HAVE
ACCESS TO THESE INSTITUTIONS.
WHEN THEY GO TO SIGN UP
FOR USE OF A WORK STATION
AND THE WAIT LIST IS SO LONG,
IT REALLY TRANSLATES
TO NO ACCESS.
THEREFORE, WE THINK
IT'S IMPORTANT,
IF UNIVERSAL ACCESS IS TRULY
GOING TO BE UNIVERSAL,
IT MUST INCLUDE A ROLE
FOR NON-PROFIT ORGANIZATIONS,
AS WELL AS LATINO
COMMUNITY BASED ORGANIZATIONS.
AND WHAT DO YOU THINK
THIS IS?
BACK TO OFFICE.
Taylor: THE EAST HARLEM
TUTORIAL PROGRAM
IS A COMMUNITY TECHNOLOGY
CENTER, OR CTC.
LIKE OTHER CTCs
THROUGHOUT THE COUNTRY,
IT PROVIDES COMPUTER ACCESS
AND TRAINING
FOR YOUNG PEOPLE AND ADULTS,
ALONG WITH JOB
AND LIFE SKILLS TRAINING.
KRYSTAL AND HER MOTHER, IRIS,
BOTH ATTEND THE CENTER.
NOW YOU SAW WHAT HAPPENED,
WHERE THIS SORT OF WENT BACK,
SO WHAT YOU WOULD DO IS,
IF YOU WANT IT THAT SIZE,
JUST GO BACK,
PUT THE CURSOR THERE,
AND DELETE, BACKSPACE,
UNTIL IT LOOKS NORMAL.
BACKSPACE?
Iris: AH, YES,
I FEEL VERY STRONGLY
ABOUT HAVING PROGRAMS
LIKE EAST HARLEM TUTORIAL
IN THE COMMUNITY,
BECAUSE IT'S A WAY
OF MAKING SURE THAT
PEOPLE THAT DON'T HAVE
ACCESS TO COMPUTERS
ARE ABLE TO GET THEIR HANDS
ON THE COMPUTERS,
BECAUSE COMPUTERS ARE
THE WAVE OF THE FUTURE,
THEY'RE HERE TO STAY.
AND PEOPLE THAT DON'T
HAVE ACCESS TO COMPUTERS,
THEY'RE VERY HINDERED BECAUSE
THEY'RE NOT ABLE TO GET AHEAD,
YOU KNOW, AND LEARN
ABOUT THE COMPUTER WORLD.
OUR CHILDREN
WON'T BE MARKETABLE,
AND -- IF THEY DON'T HAVE
ACCESS TO THE COMPUTERS.
AND YOU WILL FIND THEM
TAKING ON THE JOBS
THAT NO ONE ELSE WANTS
TO TAKE ON,
WHICH IS WORKING
IN A FAST FOOD RESTAURANT,
UM, CLEANING
BEHIND SOMEONE ELSE.
AND I DON'T THINK THAT WE HAVE
TIME TO WASTE OR TIME TO LOSE.
I THINK THAT IF WE WANT
OUR CHILDREN
TO HAVE ACCESS TO THESE JOBS,
WE GOT TO GET THEM READY,
WE GOT TO DO IT NOW, WE HAVE TO
STOP MAKING THE EXCUSES
WE'VE GOT TO DO
OUR OWN REALITY CHECK,
AND WE HAVE TO MAKE
A COMMITMENT.
THIS IS A REVOLUTION
UNLIKE ANY THAT WE'VE HAD.
WHEN YOU THINK OF, PERHAPS,
THE INDUSTRIAL REVOLUTION,
WELL, MINORITY GROUPS WERE,
BY AND LARGE,
HELD OUT OF THAT
BECAUSE OF RACIAL PREJUDICE.
WE'RE NOT HELD OUT
OF THE INFORMATION
TECHNOLOGY REVOLUTION.
THE ONLY WAY --
IF WE ARE LEFT BEHIND,
IT WILL BE BECAUSE WE HAVE NOT
MADE THE EFFORT
TO BE PART OF IT,
YOU KNOW, THIS IS SOMETHING
THAT WE CAN PREVENT,
AND THIS IS SOMETHING THAT
WE SHOULD BE A PART OF,
SO, IF IN 10 YEARS, IN 15 YEARS,
WE'RE LOOKING AROUND
AND AFRICAN AMERICANS OR LATINOS
OR ANYONE ELSE IS SAYING,
"HEY, HOW DID WE GET LEFT OUT?"
IT WILL BE BECAUSE TODAY
WE DIDN'T DO ENOUGH TO ENSURE
THAT WE AND OUR CHILDREN
AND OUR CHILDREN'S CHILDREN
WERE MASTERS AND CREATORS
OF THIS INFORMATION
TECHNOLOGY REVOLUTION,
AS OPPOSED TO MERE CONSUMERS.
Woman: GERALDO,
WHAT ARE YOU DOING?
HUH? SENDING THEM
A DARE.
WHO'S WHO?
SENDING NICKELODEON
A DARE.
WHAT KIND OF DARE?
LIKE, TO DRINK
SILLY STUFF,
LIKE OLIVES
WITH PEANUT BUTTER.
Geraldo: I LIKE EHTP
BECAUSE OF THE COMPUTERS.
I HAVE FRIENDS HERE,
AND IT'S BASICALLY JUST FUN.
[ SPEAKING SPANISH ]
Interpreter: I THINK IT IS GOOD
THAT IN EACH COMMUNITY
OR IN EACH NEIGHBORHOOD,
THEY HAVE THIS PROGRAM,
BECAUSE JUST AS IT IS
WITH THE COMPUTERS,
THIS FEVER THAT
THE KIDS HAVE NOWADAYS,
IT TAKES THEM OFF THE STREETS,
AND BY TAKING THEM
OFF THE STREETS,
IT KEEPS THEM OUT OF TROUBLE
WITH DRUGS, FIGHTS, AND GANGS,
AND HELPS THEM MAKE
A BETTER FUTURE.
[ SPEAKING SPANISH ]
Geraldo:
IT'S DIFFERENT FROM SCHOOL
BECAUSE OVER HERE,
YOU CAN JUST GET UP,
WALK AROUND, AND TALK,
AND WHATEVER --
IN SCHOOL, YOU CAN'T.
EHTP, YOU DON'T HAVE TO
GET PERMISSION
TO GO ON THE COMPUTER,
ALL YOU HAVE TO DO IS SIGN UP
AND GO ON THE COMPUTER.
Children: GOOD AFTERNOON,
MS. GONZALEZ-RAZA.
Gonzalez-Raza:
ALL RIGHT, A LIKELY PLACE?
Girl: HER BIRTHDAY.
THANK YOU, MARCHELLA.
YOU WILL BE NEXT
ON THE COMPUTER.
THOSE OF YOU THAT ARE
ON THE COMPUTER RIGHT NOW,
YOU WILL HAVE
20-MINUTE INTERVALS,
WHICH MEANS THAT
I WILL ASK YOU
TO COME BACK TO YOUR SEAT.
AND WE ARE CREATING
A LIST OF STUDENTS
THAT WILL BE THE NEXT
RUNNERS-UP ON THE COMPUTER.
THOSE STUDENTS WILL BE THOSE
THAT ARE ON-TASK
AND ARE DOING WHAT THEY
ARE SUPPOSED TO BE DOING.
CAN ME AND GIOVANNI
GO ON THE COMPUTER?
YOU HAVE YOUR TIME NOW,
YOU CAN GO, YES.
OKAY, WHAT IS ANOTHER WORD
FOR THE SUMMARY THAT WE DO?
THERE'S ANOTHER SYNONYM,
OR ANOTHER WORD, FOR SUMMARY.
Man: THERE'S A SUBTLE DIVIDE
IN THE DIGITAL DIVIDE
THAT PEOPLE MAY NOT APPRECIATE.
BUT SOME SCHOOLS,
IN ME AFFLUENT COMMUNITIES,
THE CHILDREN ARE MORE LIKELY
TO WORK IN GROUPS,
USE A COMPUTER
AS A DISCOVERY TOOL,
AND THEY'RE DOING EXPLORATION
AND THEY'RE FIGURING OUT
A PROBLEM.
THEY'RE DEVELOPING
THE KIND OF MENTAL SKILLS
THAT HELP THEM TO GO OUT
AND BE LEADERS IN OUR SOCIETY.
IN POORER COMMUNITIES,
THE KIDS ARE DOING PRIMARILY
DRILL AND PRACTICE --
COMPUTER ASKING QUESTION,
CHILD RESPONDING
"YES" OR "NO,"
"FOUR" OR "FIVE,"
RIGHT ANSWER, WRONG ANSWER.
WHAT'S THE DIFFERENCE?
HERE, THE COMPUTER IS IN CONTROL
80%, 90% OF THE TIME.
HERE, THE PERSON IS
IN CONTROL,
THE COMPUTER IS JUST A TOOL.
IT IS A TOOL TO HELP YOU
TO SOLVE A PROBLEM,
TO THINK, TO MOVE FORWARD,
TO BE A PRODUCER,
TO BE AN OWNER.
HERE, YOU'RE A CONSUMER.
IN MY CLASS, I HAVE ABOUT...
FOUR COMPUTERS.
NO, THE COMPUTERS
DON'T ALWAYS WORK.
RIGHT NOW, WE'RE HAVING
A PROBLEM WITH THE PRINTER,
WE'RE MISSING A FEW CORDS.
SO WE'RE GOING TO HAVE TO WAIT
UNTIL WE GET THE CORDS,
AND WE HOOK IT UP.
WHEN THE COMPUTERS DON'T WORK,
IT MAKES ME MAD.
BECAUSE YOU WANT TO PLAY A GAME
OR YOU WANT
TO WRITE SOMETHING UP
AND YOU CAN'T,
BECAUSE THEY'RE BUSTED.
THESE NEW COMPUTERS, OF COURSE,
THEY HAVE SOME NICHES,
AND THEY'RE TRYING
TO GET FAMILIARIZED WITH THEM.
I'VE TAKEN A COURSE,
A TRAINING COURSE,
UM, AT THE DISTRICT OFFICE
FOR THEM,
AND THEY DO COME IN
AND, ONCE A MONTH OR SO,
AND JUST TRY TO WORK WITH US
AND TEACH US HOW TO DO DIFFERENT
THINGS WITH THE COMPUTER.
BUT, YEAH, INITIALLY, YOU KNOW,
IT'S BEEN TOUGH, YOU KNOW,
GETTING ONTO THE SERVER,
AND THE PRINTING OF MATERIAL
AND THINGS LIKE THAT.
BUT, UM, FOR THE MOST PART,
THEY CAN UTILIZE THEM
FOR THEIR GAMES
AND THEIR WRITING SAMPLES.
YOU ASKED ABOUT WHAT ARE
THE FRUSTRATIONS,
MAYBE, IN TEACHING
THE TECHNOLOGIES,
AND THAT IS THAT, UM, WE TRY,
BECAUSE WE ONLY HAVE
FOUR COMPUTERS,
WE MAY HAVE JUST, LET'S SAY,
EIGHT CHILDREN AT THE COMPUTER.
AND THEN, WE, AS A FACILITATOR,
HAVE TO COME TO THE FRONT
AND TEACH THE REST
OF THE CLASS A LESSON.
SO, I MEAN, IDEALLY,
I WOULD LOVE TO SEE A CLASSROOM
FILLED WITH COMPUTERS,
AND WE WOULD FACILITATE,
I WOULD FACILITATE
FROM A COMPUTER
OR A HEAD SCREEN
AND THEY CAN FOLLOW ALONG,
YOU KNOW, AND DO AN ACTIVITY
TO FOLLOW UP THAT LESSON
ON THE COMPUTER.
ONE OF MY BIGGEST FRUSTRATIONS
IN THE CURRENT DEBATE
ABOUT TECHNOLOGY AND RACE,
TECHNOLOGY AND POVERTY,
TECHNOLOGY AND EDUCATION,
IS THAT THERE'S
THIS RECURRING IDEA
THAT COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET
WILL BE A SILVER BULLET
AND THAT IF WE JUST SAY,
WIRE THE SCHOOLS,
THEN ALL THE REST
OF THE PROBLEMS
WILL BE TAKEN CARE OF.
UM, AND YOU SEE THAT AT,
YOU KNOW,
FROM BOTH THE LEFT AND RIGHT,
FROM VERY PROMINENT
ELECTED OFFICIALS
AND FROM COMMUNITY ACTIVISTS.
AND IT'S, I THINK,
A VERY TROUBLING NOTION,
BECAUSE WHAT YOU'RE SEEING
IS THAT PEOPLE
ARE PUTTING COMPUTER LITERACY
BEFORE LITERACY,
AND THEY'RE CONFUSING
THE IMPORTANCE OF BEING ABLE
TO READ, WRITE,
AND THINK CRITICALLY
WITH THE ABILITY TO KIND OF
MANIPULATE A MACHINE.
AND COMPUTERS ARE ONLY
AS USEFUL AS YOU ARE,
AS YOUR ABILITY
TO MAKE GOOD DECISIONS
AND TO SORT OF USE THIS TOOL
AS AN EXTENSION OF YOUR MIND.
SO, YOU KNOW, FOR ME,
THE CLASSIC EXAMPLE IS
KIDS BEING TAUGHT
TO USE WORD PROCESSORS
BUT NOT BEING TAUGHT
HOW TO WRITE.
AND THOSE ARE TWO
FUNDAMENTALLY DIFFERENT SKILLS,
AND IF YOU KNOW HOW TO WRITE,
YOU'LL BE SET FOR LIFE.
AND IF YOU KNOW HOW
TO USE A WORD PROCESSOR,
WELL, YOU KNOW,
THERE'S A REAL CEILING
ON HOW FAR YOU CAN GO.
TO THE RIGHT.
Taylor: FOR STUDENTS
WHO DON'T HAVE CTCs
IN THEIR NEIGHBORHOODS,
SCHOOL MAY BE
THE ONLY OPPORTUNITY
FOR COMPUTER ACCESS.
BUT COMPUTER PROGRAMS
IN INNER CITY SCHOOLS
ARE TOO OFTEN UNDERFUNDED,
UNDERSTAFFED,
AND UNDEREQUIPPED.
THE RESULT?
MANY STUDENTS FINISH SCHOOL
AND FACE THE JOB MARKET
HAVING HAD LITTLE
OR NO EXPOSURE TO COMPUTERS.
MY NAME IS STEVEN RICE,
I'M 15 YEARS OLD,
AND I LIVE IN BUSHWICK,
BROOKLYN, NEW YORK CITY.
COME ON, Y'ALL.
WE'RE GOING THIS WAY,
COME ON.
I LIVE WITH MY MOTHER
AND MY BROTHER
AND MY MOTHER'S BOYFRIEND.
AND THAT'S ABOUT IT.
OTH BROEROVED OUT,
SO IT'S JUST US NOW.
YOU SHOOK 'EM OFF,
SHOOK 'EM OFF.
I LIVE IN BUSHWICK,
SO IT AIN'T THAT BAD.
YOU KNOW, IF YOU DON'T
MESS WITH NOBODY,
NOBODY AIN'T GONNA
MESS WITH YOU,
SO IT'S OKAY.
WE DON'T MESS WITH NOBODY,
WE JUST HAVE FUN.
MIKE.
MY FAULT, Y'ALL.
OH, WHOA, WATCH IT!
OH, YEAH! OH, YEAH!
TURNOVER, MAN!
SPORTS, PERIOD.
I JUST LIKE SPORTS A LOT.
I LIKE SPORTS BECAUSE IT'S FUN
AND IT'S COMPETITIVE.
AND I LIKE BASKETBALL THE MOST
BECAUSE IT'S COMPETITIVE
AND IT'S KIND OF HARD TO PLAY,
BUT YOU LEARN HOW TO PLAY FAST.
I LIKE PLAYING
BECAUSE YOU GET TROPHIES
AND YOU GET REWARDED
AND STUFF LIKE THAT.
AND YOU CAN GO TO COLLEGE
BY PLAYING BASKETBALL.
Man: OKAY, QUICKLY,
WE'RE GOING TO REVIEW
FROM THE OTHER DAY.
WE WERE DOING THAT
CROSS-LAP JOINT, OKAY?
WHERE WE TOOK
TWO PIECES OF WOOD,
CROSSED THEM
TO MAKE THEM FLUSH.
YOU WANT TO FIT A DRAWER,
TYPICALLY, YOU WANT
TO FIT A DRAWER INSIDE.
Rice: I GO TO
GEORGE WESTINGHOUSE VOCATIONAL
TECHNICAL HIGH SCHOOL.
AND IT'S OKAY.
SCHOOL IS OKAY,
IT'S KIND OF SAFE.
PUT THAT IN YOUR NOTEBOOK.
ANYBODY HAVE THOSE HOMEWORKS?
"GOING BEYOND REALITY"?
THE ESSAYS THAT WERE DUE.
OKAY, ANYBODY ELSE
HAVE THEIRS TO HAND IN?
THEY WERE DUE YESTERDAY.
ANYBODY ELSE?
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS?
OKAY, YOU'VE GOT YOUR WOOD,
YOU'VE GOT YOUR TOOLS,
GO TO WORK.
Rice: THE SCHOOL IS SAFE
BECAUSE NOBODY GETS,
LIKE, SERIOUSLY HURT
OR CUT OR STABBED OR ANYTHING.
SO IT'S SAFE.
AND YOU LEARN,
NOT LIKE OTHER SCHOOLS.
WESTINGHOUSE SEEMS
VERY MOTIVATED
BECAUSE THEY HAVE
A LOT OF VOCATIONAL STUDIES
FOR THE CHILDREN
THAT KEEPS THEM OCCUPIED.
AND STEVEN'S BEEN DOING
CARPENTRY AND COMPUTERS
AND ENGLISH AND MATH
AND THINGS LIKE THAT,
SO IT KEEPS THEM
PRETTY WELL COVERED.
THEY GOT
DIFFERENT LEVELS.
IF YOU GO DOWN
FURTHER ON ONE,
THE OTHER ONE,
YOU GO LESS.
EIGHTH GRADE WAS THE LAST TIME
I USED A COMPUTER,
SO I AIN'T USED IT SINCE THEN.
YEAH, I WOULD LIKE
TO TAKE A COMPUTER CLASS,
BUT I TAKE WHATEVER
THE SCHOOL GIVES ME.
Williams: WELL, I WOULD LOVE
TO HAVE A COMPUTER
FOR STEVEN
AND HIS BROTHER ANTHONY,
BUT AS REALITY IS,
YOU HAVE TO DO
WHAT'S BEST
FOR YOUR HOUSEHOLD FIRST,
THAT MEANS FOOD,
CLOTHING, AND SHELTER.
A COMPUTER'S LIKE
A LUXURY TO US.
ONCE I TAKE CARE OF THE BILLS
AND BUY THE FOOD
AND PURCHASE THE CLOTHING,
THERE'S NO MONEY LEFT
TO BUY A COMPUTER,
SO THE REALITY IS, I DON'T HAVE
THE MONEY TO BUY ONE.
I CAN NEVER GET INTO THIS.
I DON'T KNOW
WHAT BUTTONS TO PUSH.
WELL, I JUST PLAY
BECAUSE I KNOW
THE BUTTONS.
WHICH BUTTON
DO YOU USE TO SHOOT?
"C" BUTTON.
SO THEY HAVE SET PLAYS
ALREADY IN HERE?
YEAH, BUT YOU CAN PUT
PLAYS YOU WANT.
IT'S LIKE USING YOUR
COMPUTER, RIGHT, AT SCHOOL?
YEAH, BUT I DON'T USE
NO COMPUTER AT SCHOOL.
BECAUSE THEY STOPPED
YOUR COMPUTER LAB?
THEY NEVER
PUT ME IN IT.
BECAUSE I THOUGHT THAT
WAS ONE OF THE THINGS
YOU PICKED TO GO
TO WESTINGHOUSE FOR.
I DID -- THEY'LL PROBABLY
GIVE IT TO ME NEXT YEAR.
OH, OKAY, NEXT YEAR IS
YOUR PROGRAM YEAR,
ONCE YOU PICK WHAT YOU'RE
GONNA BE STUDYING THERE?
THEY GIVE YOU DIFFERENT
SHOPS EVERY YEAR.
SO WHAT ABOUT
YOUR CURRICULUM?
I TAKE WHATEVER
THEY GIVE ME.
BOY, YOU CAN'T
GO THROUGH LIFE
TAKING WHATEVER
PEOPLE GIVE YOU,
YOU HAVE TO DO
WHAT YOU WANT.
YOU WANT TO TAKE COMPUTERS,
YOU SHOULD ASK THEM.
I KNOW I SHOULD,
BUT I DIDN'T.
Williams: WHY YOU AIN'T
TELL ME THIS BEFORE?
WE'VE BEEN GOING THROUGH
ALL THIS,
AND I'M THINKING YOU'RE GETTING
YOUR COMPUTER IN SCHOOL,
AND YOU SAY, WELL, YOU TAKE
WHAT THEY GIVE YOU.
I THOUGHT YOU KNEW
I HAD WOODSHOP.
I KNOW YOU HAD WOODSHOP --
I THOUGHT
YOU HAD COMPUTER, TOO.
I DON'T HAVE COMPUTER.
I'M THINKING OF ONE THING
AND IT'S SOMETHING ELSE.
THANK YOU FOR TELLING ME --
IF I HADN'T ASKED YOU,
I WOULD'VE BEEN HERE ASSUMING
YOU WERE GETTING COMPUTER,
AND YOU'RE NOT EVEN GETTING IT.
AND THAT'S WHAT
YOU WENT THERE FOR.
I AIN'T KNOW
YOU WANTED TO KNOW.
WHAT YOU MEAN,
I WANTED TO KNOW?
HUH?
I AIN'T KNOW
YOU WANTED TO KNOW.
WHAT YOU MEAN?
DON'T I ASK YOU
ALL ABOUT YOUR SCHOOL?
YOU TELL ME,
"IT'S OKAY, IT'S FINE."
YOU AIN'T ASK ME ABOUT
NO COMPUTER, THOUGH.
BECAUSE I'M ASSUMING
YOU GOT IT
BECAUSE THAT'S WHAT
YOU WENT THERE FOR.
I KNOW ABOUT SHOP CLASS,
BUT I FIGURED YOU
WAS GETTING COMPUTER, TOO.
Dziko: I THINK CHILDREN OF COLOR
IN LOW INCOME COMMUNITIES
DO NOT GET A GOOD
GENERAL EDUCATION.
I THINK THERE ARE
SOME SURVIVAL INSTINCTS
THAT WOULD GO WELL
IN CORPORATE AMERICA,
BUT FIRST, YOU HAVE TO HAVE
THE SKILLS TO GET THERE,
AND I THINK THAT'S WHERE
THE DISCONNECT IS.
THE SCHOOLS AREN'T
PREPARING THE KIDS,
THERE'S NOT ENOUGH MONEY,
THE WORLD IS CHANGING,
THE ECONOMICS IS CHANGING,
THE TYPE OF JOBS THAT ARE
AVAILABLE ARE CHANGING,
AND WE'RE STILL BACK
WHERE, YOU KNOW,
MANUAL LABOR WAS AN OPTION,
AND IT'S NOT ANYMORE,
WHERE A VOCATIONAL SCHOOL
WAS AN OPTION.
IT'S NOT ANYMORE.
I THINK ONE OF THE THINGS THAT
OUR STUDY ON THE DIGITAL DIVIDE
MAKES CLEAR
IS THAT EDUCATION
IS VERY IMPORTANT.
ONE OF THE KEY RESULTS
IS THAT WE NEED TO MAKE SURE
WE HAVE EQUAL ACCESS
TO EDUCATION
AND THAT WE HAVE
HIGH LEVELS OF EDUCATION
FOR ALL MEMBERS OF OUR SOCIETY,
BECAUSE WITH EDUCATION
WILL COME ACCESS TO COMPUTERS
AND WITH ACCESS TO COMPUTERS
WILL COME USAGE.
ONE OF THE THINGS WE HAVE FOUND
IS THAT ACCESS BEGETS USAGE.
SO IT'S NOT AN ISSUE OF WHETHER
YOU WANT TO USE IT OR NOT,
BUT RATHER, WHETHER
YOU HAVE ACCESS TO IT,
BECAUSE OUR DATA SHOW
VERY CLEARLY THAT,
AS SOON AS YOU
HAVE ACCESS, YOU USE IT.
WHAT'S REALLY CRITICAL
ABOUT HAVING ACCESS
IS NOT JUST THE ACCESS
IN AND OF ITSELF,
IT'S WHAT YOU DO WITH IT,
WHAT OUTCOMES.
CAN KIDS READ BETTER?
CAN THEY DO BETTER IN SCHOOL?
ARE ADULTS GETTING
LIVING WAGE JOBS?
THOSE KINDS OF THINGS
ARE THE RESULTS
THAT WE ARE HOPING FOR
AS PEOPLE ACCESS
THESE NEW TECHNOLOGIES --
OWNING A COMPUTER, ACCESSING
THE WEB AT A COMMUNITY CENTER,
ARE THE KINDS OF THINGS
THAT WILL LEND THEMSELVES TO
BUILDING INFORMATION LITERACY.
THERE'S A NEW BASIC, AND IT'S
CALLED INFORMATION LITERACY.
WELL, MY NAME IS
VINCENT ROBERT BELL
AND I'M 11 GOING ON 12.
I LIVE WITH MY MOTHER,
MY FATHER, MY BROTHER,
MY AUNT, MY GRANDMOTHER,
MY COUSIN...
MY -- AND MY LITTLE
TWO COUSINS.
YES, I'M VERY DIFFERENT
FROM MY FRIENDS.
WELL, LIKE, SOME OF MY FRIENDS,
THEY LIKE TO PLAY BASKETBALL,
I LIKE TO PLAY BASEBALL.
LIKE, ANOTHER EXAMPLE IS,
I LIKE COMPUTERS,
THEY LIKE SOMETHING DIFFERENT,
THEY MAY LIKE LOOKING AT FISH.
Woman: FOR HOMEWORK TONIGHT,
YOU'RE GOING TO MAKE A LIST
OF YOUR FAMILY AND FRIENDS,
AND YOU'RE GOING TO BLOCK OFF
THE PAGES IN THREE COLUMNS.
Vincent: HOW I WOULD CHANGE
COMPUTERS IN MY SCHOOL
IS, I WOULD FIRST FIND OUT
HO KS ARE
IN EACH CLASSROOM
AND SEND THAT AMOUNT
OF COMPUTERS TO THAT CLASS.
BECAUSE IT'S LIKE,
YOU HAVE TO BE
INDEPENDENT TO LEARN,
YOU CAN'T BE, LIKE,
ALL BUNCHED UP TO LEARN,
BECAUSE THAT'S HARDER TO LEARN.
IT'S HARDER BECAUSE ONE PERSON
WANTS TO DO THIS,
ONE PERSON WANTS TO DO THAT.
ONE PERSON WANTS TO DO THIS,
IT'S HARDER FOR THE MAIN PERSON
TO UNDERSTAND
WHAT THE BASIC CONCEPT
OF THE COMPUTER IS.
WELL, ONE OF THE THINGS
I WANT TO BE WHEN I GROW UP
IS A CHEF.
ANOTHER THING I WANT TO BE
WHEN I GROW UP IS A TEACHER,
AND THE OTHER THING I WANT TO
BE WHEN I GROW UP IS A LAWYER.
MY NAME IS SHAQUANA DAVIS,
I'M 16 YEARS OLD,
AND I LIVE
IN BROOKLYN, NEW YORK.
I LIVE WITH MY FOSTER MOTHER,
HER DAUGHTER,
AND SHE GOT
ANOTHER FOSTER DAUGHTER.
NO, I ALREADY CALLED IT.
MY OLDEST BROTHER LIVES
WITH HIS GRANDMOTHER,
MY OLDEST SISTER LIVES
WITH HER FRIEND IN MANHATTAN,
AND MY YOUNGER BROTHERS
AND SISTERS IS, UM,
IN A FOSTER HOME, TOO,
WITH ANOTHER FOSTER LADY.
I HAVE SEVEN BROTHERS
AND THREE SISTERS,
AND ONLY ONE OF MY BROTHERS
USE A COMPUTER.
HE RIGHT NEXT TO ME.
AND THE REST OF THEM IS YOUNG
AND THEY DON'T KNOW
ABOUT A COMPUTER.
YEAH, THIS IS IT,
PRINT THIS OUT.
Davis: MY FAVORITE THING
I LIKE TO DO IS
LOOK AT VIDEOS ON B.E.T.
AND LISTEN TO MUSIC
ON THE RADIOS.
AND COME TO CONCORD
AND PLAY ON THE COMPUTERS.
LITTLE KIM, HOLD UP.
THOUGHT YOU
WERE STOPPING.
♪ STOPPIN' ♪♪
OH, IT'S THE OLD THING.
Woman: CONCORD FAMILY SERVICES
IS A FOSTER CARE AGENCY
THAT IS COMMUNITY BASED,
AND WE PARTNER WITH DIFFERENT
PEOPLE IN THE COMMUNITY,
AND ONE OF OUR PARTNERS
IS URBAN TECHNOLOGY.
URBAN TECHNOLOGY WANTED
TO BE IN BROOKLYN
AND THEY DECIDED TO MAKE
CONCORD FAMILY SERVICES
THEIR TEST SITE,
AND THAT'S HOW
THIS PROGRAM CAME ABOUT.
YOU COULD SELECT
ON ANY ONE OF THESE.
I ALWAYS GO
TO LEONI'S LYRIC PAGE.
SHE HAS THE BEST?
IT GOT ALL THE SONGS
UP HERE
THAT YOU'RE LOOKING FOR.
Woman: WE STARTED
THREE YEARS AGO.
AT THAT TIME, WE WERE 14%
IN TERMS OF USE,
AND THE WHITE POPULATION
WAS CLOSE TO 30.
WE WERE VERY TROUBLED
BY THAT GAP
AND WE FELT THAT
IF THAT CONTINUED,
THAT IT WOULD FURTHER CAUSE
ECONOMIC PROBLEMS,
SOCIAL PROBLEMS,
IN THE UNITED STATES,
AND SO WE PUT
THE URBAN TECHNOLOGY
CENTER TOGETHER.
ITS MISSION IS TO PROVIDE
ACCESS TO TECHNOLOGY
TO THOSE PEOPLE
IN INNER CITY COMMUNITIES
WHO HAD FORMERLY BEEN
OVERLOOKED OR UNDERSERVED.
Davis: I COME
TO CONCORD EVERY DAY,
BECAUSE I LIKE WORKING
ON THE COMPUTERS.
I LIKE LOOKING UP MUSIC PAGES
AND PRINTING SONGS OUT
THAT I DON'T KNOW
SO I CAN LEARN THEM,
AND I LIKE COMING TO CONCORD
TO HANG WITH MY FRIENDS
AND TO PLAY GAMES
ON THE COMPUTER.
NO, I DON'T HAVE
COMPUTERS AT MY SCHOOL,
BUT I WISH I HAD COMPUTERS
AT MY SCHOOL,
BECAUSE THE KIDS AT MY SCHOOL
ASK ME ABOUT COMPUTERS
AND I TELL ABOUT THE COMPUTERS
AND WHAT YOU CAN DO ON THERE.
AND THEY BE TELLING ME THAT --
AND THEY BE ASKING ME
CAN I GET THEM THINGS
OFF THE COMPUTER,
AND I'LL GET IT
OFF THE COMPUTER FOR THEM.
Taylor: WORKING ONE-ON-ONE
WITH AN URBAN TECH STAFF MEMBER,
SHAQUANA BEGINS DEVELOPING
HANDS-ON TECHNOLOGY SKILLS,
AN IMPORTANT FIRST STEP
TOWARD JOB OPPORTUNITIES
IN THE COMPUTER INDUSTRY.
Davis: I LEARNED HOW
TO REPAIR COMPUTERS
THROUGH THE LEADERSHIP
ACADEMY PROGRAM.
AND, UM, I WORKED ON
THAT COMPUTER TODAY
AND SOME OF THE THINGS --
I INSTALLED MEMORY IN THERE,
I INSTALLED A HARD DRIVE,
A CD-ROM,
AND I INSTALLED
A SOUND CARD
AND A MODEM.
AND I INSTALLED WINDOWS 95
ON A COMPUTER TODAY.
Floyd: WHEN SHAQUANA
FIRST CAME HERE,
SHE WAS VERY QUIET,
SHE WASN'T MOTIVATED
TO GO TO SCHOOL,
SHE GOT INTO A LOT OF FIGHTS
WITH HER PEERS,
AND SHE WAS REALLY MOVING
FROM FOSTER HOME TO FOSTER HOME.
SO WE DECIDED, WITH HER,
THAT SHE WANTED TO BE
IN THIS PROGRAM.
WE TOLD HER THE RULES
AND REGULATIONS
THAT SHE HAD TO COMMIT TO.
SHE AGREED.
AND AS SHE BEGAN GOING
INTO THIS PROGRAM
AND AS THE WEEKS WENT BY,
YOU SAW A CHANGE
IN HER BEHAVIOR.
THE FIGHTING CEASED,
I FOUND THAT THE RELATIONSHIPS
BETWEEN HER AND THE FOSTER
PARENTS WERE IMPROVING.
AND I ALSO FOUND THAT
SHE REALLY WAS THINKING
DIFFERENTLY ABOUT SCHOOL.
I THINK SHE FELT THAT SCHOOL,
IN THE BEGINNING,
WAS NOT FOR HER,
THAT SHE COULDN'T LEARN,
THAT SHE WASN'T MOTIVATED,
AND I THINK
THIS GAVE HER SOME HOPE.
Dziko: I THINK TECHNOLOGY,
PEOPLE INTELLECTUALLY KNOW THAT
IT'S SOMETHING THEY NEED.
BUT THEN, ON THE OTHER SIDE,
IT'S STILL SOMETHING
THAT WHITE PEOPLE DO.
WHEN YOU TALK TO KIDS,
IT IS SOMETHING THAT
THE WHITE KIDS DO,
BECAUSE THAT IS ALL THEY SEE.
YOU GO INTO THE SCHOOL
AND THERE MAY BE A COMPUTER LAB,
AND OUR PEOPLE ARE NOT THERE.
AND THEY THINK IF IT
DOESN'T SAY, YOU KNOW,
AFRICAN AMERICAN KIDS THIS,
KIDS OF COLOR THAT,
THAT IT'S NOT FOR THEM.
AND THEY HAVE BEEN CONDITIONED
TO THINK THAT.
YOU KNOW, YOU SAY, WHO IS --
WHAT DOES A SCIENTIST LOOK LIKE?
WHAT DOES A COMPUTER REPAIR
PERSON LOOK LIKE?
YOU KNOW, THEY'LL ALMOST ALWAYS
DRAW A WHITE PERSON,
AND IT'S ALWAYS A MAN.
AND, YOU KNOW, IT'S THE SAME
THING WITH GIRLS, YOU KNOW.
WHAT DO THEY SEE?
IT'S THE SAME STUFF
THEY SEE IN ADVERTISEMENTS.
IT'S THE SAME THINGS
THEY SEE ON TV,
IN THEIR COMMUNITY, MAYBE.
THEY NEED TO HAVE
A LITTLE VARIETY,
A LITTLE VARIETY IN ROLE MODELS
WHO ARE WILLING
TO SPEND TIME WITH THEM,
NOT JUST, YOU KNOW,
STAND IN FRONT OF THEM
AND SAY, "WELL,
I BUILD COMPUTERS,"
AND THEN,
THAT'S THE END OF THAT.
YOU SEE?
16 MEGABYTES?
YEAH, 16.
Davis: I LIKE
REPAIRING COMPUTERS
BECAUSE I LEARN,
I COULD LEARN THE STUFF
ON THE INSIDE.
MOST OF THE COMPUTER
TECHNICIANS ARE MEN,
AND THEY LOOK LIKE
THEY COULD BE
IN THEIR LATE 40s, EARLY 50s.
COMPUTER TECHNICIANS
LOOK INTELLIGENT.
THEY LOOK SMART,
LIKE THEY GOT BRAINS.
NOW, WE WANT TO CHOOSE
THE COMPONENT.
SMART, LOOK LIKE TO ME,
PEOPLE THAT WALK AROUND
WITH GLASSES ON
AND PEN POCKETS IN THEIR SHIRT.
AND SUSPENDERS ON
AND HIGHWATER PANTS.
THAT'S SMART, TO ME.
THIS, THIS LITTLE ARROW
OVER HERE MEANS ITS UP,
SO YOU HAVE TO PLUG IT
IN LIKE THIS.
OKAY, SAME WITH THIS ONE.
Taylor: IF CHILDREN OF COLOR
IN LOW INCOME COMMUNITIES
ARE ABLE TO GAIN
THE NECESSARY SKILLS
TO COMPETE IN
THE HIGH-TECH JOB MARKET,
WHAT KIND OF RECEPTION
AWAITS THEM?
THEY ARE APPROACHING AN INDUSTRY
THAT SOME OBSERVERS FEEL
HAS A POOR TRACK RECORD
IN HIRING AND PROMOTING LATINOS
AND AFRICAN AMERICANS.
Dziko: WELL, THERE ARE SEVERAL
REASONS WHY I LEFT THE INDUSTRY.
ONE OF THEM IS THAT I WATCHED
A LOT OF YOUNG PEOPLE
GOING THROUGH THE SAME THING
THAT I WENT THROUGH IN THE '70s.
SO I KEPT SEEING THIS GO ON.
I WATCHED CORPORATIONS RECRUIT
AT A COLLEGE LEVEL.
WELL, WHO GOES TO COLLEGE?
SO THIS IS THEIR POOL
THEY'RE CHOOSING FROM,
AND THEY'RE NOT
INVESTING IN K-12.
I FELT LIKE I COULDN'T DO IT
FROM THE INSIDE.
AND IT JUST SEEMED TO ME
THAT BEING IN THE COMMUNITY
WAS THE BEST PLACE
TO MAKE IT HAPPEN,
AND WE HAVE A GOAL
OF FLOODING THE PIPELINE
WITH SO MANY TALENTED KIDS
THAT CORPORATIONS DON'T HAVE
A CHOICE BUT TO HIRE THEM.
A RéSUMé IS NOT THAT HARD TO DO,
ONCE YOU KNOW HOW TO DO IT.
SO SOMETIMES, WHEN YOU DO IT,
YOU SHOULD REALLY
BE MORE EXPERIENCED
BEFORE YOU REALLY GO
IN TOO DEEP,
BEFORE YOU GO DEEP INTO
WHAT YOU'RE GOING TO DO.
BECAUSE SOMETIMES, LIKE,
YOU COULD MESS UP,
SOMETIMES I EVEN MESS UP --
EVERYBODY'S NOT PERFECT.
AND SOMETIMES, LIKE, EVEN
OUR TEACHERS MESS UP SOMETIMES.
Man: WELL, VINCENT, SINCE HE'S
BEEN GOING TO URBAN TECH,
HE WANTS TO LEARN MORE,
ESPECIALLY WHEN
IT COMES TO COMPUTER.
HE GETS EXCITED WHEN HE GETS
AROUND A COMPUTER,
OR EVEN MENTION
THE WORD "COMPUTERS."
HE GETS, HE JUST JUMPS AT IT
AND HE'S SO EXCITED ABOUT IT.
BEFORE, HE HAD NO,
HE HAD INTEREST,
BUT IT WASN'T TECHNICAL.
AND THIS IS --
OH, HE IS LOVING IT.
AND SO IT'S A BIG CHANGE IN HIM,
A VERY BIG CHANGE.
AND LIKE I SAY, URBAN TECH,
HE CAME IN AND HE WENT THROUGH
THAT PROGRAM THE FIRST YEAR,
AND FROM THEN, HE JUST
SHOT OFF LIKE A ROCKET.
NOW, YOU CAN'T SLOW HIM DOWN.
Floyd: YOU WERE SUPPOSED TO
COME AND SHOW ME SOME THINGS.
BUT WHAT HAPPENED?
OKAY.
Taylor: THE SUCCESS
OF COMMUNITY TECHNOLOGY CENTERS
IN LOW INCOME NEIGHBORHOODS
CLEARLY SHOWS THE DEMAND
FOR DIGITAL TECHNOLOGY
IN THESE COMMUNITIES,
AND YET, YOU STILL
CAN'T BUY A COMPUTER
IN BEDFORD-STUYVESANT.
WHY DO SOME CORPORATIONS
CONTINUE TO IGNORE
THIS POTENTIAL MARKET?
Bransford:
MOST SERVICE PROVIDERS
DON'T THINK THAT THERE IS
A LOT OF BUSINESS
IN OUR INNER CITY COMMUNITIES.
I'VE BEEN TOLD
OVER AND OVER AGAIN,
"WELL, PAT, THERE'S NO MONEY
IN THOSE COMMUNITIES,"
AND I THINK THAT IS THE PROBLEM
WITH THE LACK OF ACCESS.
IF YOU LOOK AROUND, THERE
REALLY ISN'T A RETAIL STORE
WHERE YOU CAN BUY A COMPUTER.
YOU SEE THE STOREFRONTS
BEGINNING TO OPEN UP,
BUT THERE ARE NO CompUSAs
ANYWHERE NEAR
THE BEDFORD-STUYVESANT AREA
THAT WE'RE WORKING IN.
SO I THINK IN TERMS
OF GOODS AND SERVICES
THAT THERE IS JUST A VERY --
THERE'S A DELAY
IN PROVIDING THOSE
TO INNER CITY COMMUNITIES
BECAUSE NO ONE
REALLY SEES THE MARKET.
I SEE PEOPLE IN MY JOB EVERY DAY
WHO WANT TO GO INVEST
BILLIONS OF DOLLARS
IN COUNTRIES WHERE
THE PER CAPITA INCOME
IN THAT COUNTRY
IS ONE-TENTH
THE PER CAPITA INCOME
AT THE LOW END OF AMERICA'S
BLACK AND BROWN COMMUNITIES.
IT'S RACISM,
IT'S A LACK OF UNDERSTANDING
OF THE COMMERCIAL OPPORTUNITIES,
AND IT'S A FEAR OF THE UNKNOWN.
WELL, I BELIEVE THAT IF EVERYONE
WAS TO BE ON THE SAME LEVEL,
IT WOULD BE KIND OF HARD
FOR PEOPLE
TO TAKE ADVANTAGE
OF OTHER PEOPLE.
IF ALL OF US WERE INVOLVED
IN THE COMPUTER AGE,
THEN WE WOULD KNOW
JUST AS MUCH AS EVERYBODY ELSE,
AND THAT WOULD BE KIND OF HARD
FOR PEOPLE TO DEAL WITH.
IF OUR CHILDREN CAN HAVE ACCESS
TO DIFFERENT THINGS
OTHER CHILDREN
CAN HAVE ACCESS TO,
THEY'D LEARN DIFFERENT CULTURES,
HOW TO GET ALONG WITH
PEOPLE BETTER,
HOW TO RELATE
TO OTHER COMMUNITIES
AND OTHER NATIONALITIES --
THAT WOULD BRING PEACE.
WELL, IN THIS AREA, THERE'S NO,
THERE'S NO PLACE
YOU CAN GO FOR TRAINING.
OF COURSE, THERE'S
NO COMPUTER STORES,
YOU HAVE TO GO TO A BIG COMPUTER
STORE TO BUY A COMPUTER.
MOST PEOPLE
CAN'T AFFORD A COMPUTER.
YOU NEED SOMEPLACE WHERE YOU CAN
TAKE A KID TO AFTER SCHOOL.
AND URBAN TECH PROVIDED THAT,
JUST MADE US A GREAT PROGRAM.
AND A LOT OF KIDS THAT CAME OUT
OF IT, LIKE MY SON, VINCENT,
THEY ENJOYED IT.
NOW HE KNOWS MORE
ABOUT COMPUTERS --
I HAVE TO GO TO HIM.
HE IS MUCH BETTER THAN I AM,
BUT HE LEARNED IT HERE,
NOT AT SCHOOL,
WHICH IS A SHAME.
OKAY.
"VINCENT BELL."
WHO IS THAT?
YOUR SON, WHO ELSE?
AND HERE'S MY HOMEPAGE
AND MOST OF THIS STUFF
WAS DONE IN ADOBE PHOTOSHOP.
WELL, WHAT WE DID WAS,
HE TOOK A PICTURE
WITH A DIGITAL CAMERA
AND SCANNED IT IN.
THAT'S PRETTY GOOD.
Hoffman: I THINK
IT'S APPROPRIATE FOR US
TO HOLD CORPORATE AMERICA'S
FEET TO THE FIRE
AND SAY, YOU KNOW, IF YOU WANT
TO PARTICIPATE IN THESE REWARDS,
THEN YOU ALSO NEED TO ENSURE,
OR TAKE SOME RESPONSIBILITY
FOR ENSURING
THAT EVERYONE
IN THIS COUNTRY HAS ACCESS.
AND THE IMPLICATIONS
ARE PROFOUND,
BECAUSE WITHOUT ACCESS
FOR ALL AMERICANS,
WE ARE GOING TO SEE
INCREASING PROBLEMS
IN THE INNER CITY, FOR EXAMPLE,
WE ARE NOT GOING TO HAVE
A WELL-TRAINED CADRE
OF HIGH-TECH WORKERS
IN THIS COUNTRY,
AND WE WILL CONTINUE
TO SEE INCOME GAPS.
AND SO, I THINK, IT IS
IN THE BEST INTERESTS
OF CORPORATE AMERICA
TO BEGIN TO THINK
ABOUT THE KINDS OF PROGRAMS
THAT THEY CAN INSTITUTE
TO ENSURE ACCESS
TO BOTH POOR PEOPLE
AND MINORITIES
AND POOR MINORITIES.
CORPORATE AMERICA
CREATED THIS MESS
AND THEY HAVE TO
LIVE WITH IT, ESSENTIALLY.
AND WHAT'S HAPPENING IS,
IT'S BACKFIRING ON THEM
BECAUSE THEY CAN'T FILL THE JOBS
TO KEEP THEM GOING,
SO THEY CREATED
THIS WHOLE INDUSTRY,
BUT THEY CAN'T KEEP IT THRIVING.
AND SO, NOW, WHAT THEY'RE
DOING IS STARTING TO LOOK
IN THE COMMUNITIES THAT
THEY NEVER LOOKED AT BEFORE
AND THINKING THAT
THEY KNOW THOSE COMMUNITIES
AND THINKING THAT IF THEY PLOP
A FEW CHEAP PCs IN THERE,
IT'S THE GREAT EQUALIZER.
IT DOESN'T MAKE
ANY SENSE WHATSOEVER.
IN THE INFORMATION AGE,
IN THE NEW AGE,
IF YOU DON'T HAVE A COMPUTER,
IT'S NOT "HAVE AND HAVE NOT,"
IT'S CAN AND CANNOT,
BECAUSE IF YOU DON'T HAVE ACCESS
TO INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY,
YOU CANNOT --
YOU CANNOT EDUCATE YOURSELF,
YOU CANNOT COMMUNICATE,
YOU CANNOT
ENTERTAIN YOURSELF,
YOU CANNOT CONDUCT COMMERCE.
THIS ISN'T ABOUT HAVING
A REFRIGERATOR OR A TELEVISION
OR A CAR IN YOUR GARAGE
OR A CHICKEN IN EVERY POT,
THIS IS ABOUT HAVING
THE FUNDAMENTAL TECHNOLOGY,
THE FUNDAMENTAL KEYS
TO BEING SUCCESSFUL
IN THE 21st CENTURY,
WHICH IS WHY WE NEED LOWER-COST,
EASIER-TO-USE TECHNOLOGY.
BECAUSE THAT'S WHAT
IT'S GOING TO TAKE
TO GET IT TO EVERYONE,
NOT JUST SOME PEOPLE,
BUT EVERYONE.
IT'S NICE.
AND THEN, I HAVE
SOME OF MY LINKS.
THE FIRST ONE'S
MY FAVORITE.
"THE SIMPSONS"?
AND IF YOU CLICK THAT,
WHAT WILL COME UP?
IF YOU CLICK HERE,
IT WILL SEND YOU
TO "THE SIMPSONS"
HOMEPAGE.
WILL I GET A PICTURE?
Vincent: URBAN TECH
HAS GIVEN A COMPUTER
TO EVERY KID
WHO COMPLETES THE PROGRAM.
AND IT'S VERY HELPFUL,
BECAUSE, LIKE, A LOT OF TIMES,
MY PARENTS DON'T REALLY KNOW --
I TEACH THEM.
KIDS TEACH THEIR PARENTS.
LIKE, I PICKED THE COMPUTER UP
IN TWO DAYS
FROM THE FIRST WEEK I JOINED,
BECAUSE IT WAS EASY AS LONG AS
YOU HAD THE EFFORT INTO IT.
Victor: I THINK WE HAVE,
IN OUR DISTRICT,
I THINK WE GET
THE SHORT END TOO MUCH.
IF YOU GO SOMEPLACE ELSE,
LIKE I SAID,
THEY HAVE COMPUTER CLASSES,
THEY HAVE, THEY JUST HAVE
BETTER SCHOOLS FOR SOME REASON,
BUT IT'S STILL
THE PUBLIC SCHOOL SYSTEM.
I ALWAYS ASK MYSELF, WHY,
WHAT'S THE DIFFERENCE
BETWEEN THIS COMMUNITY
AND THAT COMMUNITY?
I MEAN, YOU HAVE JUST AS MANY
HARD-WORKING PEOPLE
IN BEDFORD-STUYVESANT
AS YOU DO IN BOROUGH PARK
OR BENSONHURST OR BAY RIDGE.
YOU KNOW, I MEAN,
WHAT IS THE DIFF --
YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT A SCHOOL,
YOU'RE NOT TALKING
ABOUT WHOSE HOUSE COST MORE
OR WHO DONATES MORE MONEY
TO THIS ELECTION FUND
OR THAT ELECTION FUND.
YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT KIDS.
THEY SHOULD ALL BE TREATED,
THEY SHOULD ALL BE GIVEN
THE SAME OPPORTUNITY TO LEARN,
JUST LIKE ANYBODY ELSE.
SO WHAT IF BAY RIDGE DONATES
HALF A MILLION DOLLARS
TO SOMEBODY'S CAMPAIGN?
DOES THAT MEAN YOU PAY
MORE ATTENTION TO BAY RIDGE
AND YOU IGNORE
BEDFORD-STUYVESANT, YOU KNOW?
THAT'S FRUSTRATING,
ESPECIALLY AS A PARENT.
AS A KID WHO SPENT A LOT
OF YEARS IN BEDFORD-STUYVESANT,
YOU SEE THESE THINGS
AND YOU JUST SHAKE YOUR HEAD,
YOU KNOW, "WHAT'S
WRONG WITH US?"
WELL, THERE'S NOTHING
WRONG WITH US, YOU KNOW,
WE'RE FINE,
WE JUST NEED OPPORTUNITY.
Taylor: IF ALL AMERICANS
HAD EQUAL ACCESS TO TECHNOLOGY,
WHAT WOULD HAPPEN?
WOULD IT DIMINISH CURRENT SOCIAL
AND ECONOMIC INEQUALITIES?
WHAT WILL HAPPEN TO THOSE
WHO ARE DENIED ACCESS
TO THE INFORMATION AGE?
AND WHAT WILL IT MEAN TO BE
ON THE WRONG SIDE
OF THE DIGITAL DIVIDE?
Lopez: THE QUESTION OF WHETHER
AMERICA WOULD BE DIFFERENT
IF WE ALL HAD ACCESS
TO TECHNOLOGY
IS A GOOD QUESTION.
I DON'T KNOW IF IT'S
AN ANSWERABLE QUESTION, THOUGH.
IF YOU LOOK AT THE OTHER WAYS
THAT AMERICA HAD TRIED TO
INTEGRATE ACCESS AND EQUALITY,
AND THE TRACK RECORD IT'S HAD,
I THINK WE WOULD HAVE TO LOOK
FROM THAT POINT AND DETERMINE
WHETHER TECHNOLOGY, ONCE AGAIN,
IS BEING USED AS A PANACEA
TO ACHIEVE SOMETHING
THAT AMERICA HAS BEEN TRYING
TO DO FOR SO LONG,
AND HAS YET BEEN SUCCESSFUL.
I THINK IT'S CRITICALLY
IMPORTANT FOR YOUNG PEOPLE
TO BE INVOLVED
IN THIS TECHNOLOGY,
FOR OUR COMMUNITIES
TO BE PLUGGED IN,
BECAUSE WE'RE TALKING
ABOUT THE FUTURE.
WHAT WE DO IN THE NEXT
5 TO 10 YEARS
WILL SHAPE THEIR LIVES
FOR THE NEXT 60 TO 70 YEARS,
AND SO IT'S CRITICALLY IMPORTANT
TO MAKE THE INVESTMENT
IN OUR PEOPLE NOW.
INFORMATION IS POWER,
AND EQUAL ACCESS TO COMPUTERS
WILL GET YOU THAT INFORMATION.
AND I THINK, NO LONGER
WILL PEOPLE BE IN THE DARK.
PEOPLE WILL LEARN
ABOUT INVESTING,
THEY WILL LEARN WHAT'S GOING ON
IN THEIR NEIGHBORHOODS.
THEY BECOME MORE INTERESTED,
SO THEN, THEY SEEK
MORE INFORMATION,
SO THEN, THEY VOTE MORE
AND THEY RUN FOR OFFICE MORE.
I MEAN, IT IS JUST LIKE THIS
LITTLE PEBBLE EFFECT, RIGHT?
IT GETS YOU, THE MORE YOU LEARN,
THE MORE YOU WANT TO KNOW.
IT'S NATURAL, IT'S HUMAN NATURE,
AND I THINK THAT TECHNOLOGY
ALLOWS THAT TO HAPPEN.
♪ CHITTY CHITTY BANG-BANG,
I CAN DO KARATE ♪
I CAN SHAKE MY BODY ♪♪
Geraldo: I THINK I'LL GET
A COMPUTER IN THE FUTURE
BY PROBABLY BUYING ONE
OR SOMEBODY DONATING IT TO ME.
Interpreter: IF THEY HAVE
A COMPUTER AT HOME,
THEY CAN COMMUNICATE
WITH OTHER CHILDREN,
THEY CAN DO
THEIR HOMEWORK BETTER,
AND THEY WILL HAVE
A BETTER EDUCATION.
NO, NO, YOU CAN'T PUT
A DRAW 2 ON A DRAW 4.
SHE TRIES TO CHEAT
IN EVERY GAME.
EVERY GAME WE PLAY,
SHE CHEATS.
Iris: IT'S OKAY.
SHE DOESN'T KNOW
HOW TO PLAY.
MAYBE IN THE FUTURE,
I WOULD LIKE TO PURCHASE ONE,
BUT I WOULD LIKE TO LEARN
AND READ ABOUT THE COMPUTERS
AND TRY TO KNOW
WHICH IS THE BEST ONE
THAT I CAN PURCHASE LATER ON.
HOPEFULLY, I WANT TO HAVE
A COMPUTER WHEN I GROW UP,
SO THAT WAY, IT'LL BE
MUCH EASIER FOR ME TO DO THINGS.
ONE OF THESE DAYS, HOPEFULLY,
I'LL BE ABLE TO GET THEM
A COMPUTER, SO.
WELL, YEAH, I'M GOING TO
BUY A COMPUTER,
BECAUSE THERE'S GOING TO BE
PLENTY OF THINGS
THAT I NEED TO LEARN.
AND I'M GOING TO NEED A COMPUTER
SOONER OR LATER,
SO I'M GOING TO BUY ONE.
YES, I THINK I'LL HAVE
A COMPUTER WHEN I GROW UP
BECAUSE THE ONE I HAVE
AT MY FOSTER MOTHER HOUSE,
I'M TAKING IT WITHE
WHEN I GO BACK TO MY MOTHER.
Vincent: YES, I DO THINK I'LL
HAVE A COMPUTER WHEN I GROW UP.
BECAUSE IT'S LIKE,
I COULD SAVE UP FOR THE MONEY
OR I CAN KEEP THE COMPUTER
I HAVE NOW.
Victor: WELL, VINCENT
TEACHES EVERYBODY, UH,
LIKE, THE SOFTWARE ASPECT
OF THE COMPUTER.
HIS BROTHER,
HIS BROTHER GOES TO VICTOR,
GOES TO BOYS AND GIRLS
HIGH SCHOOL
AND HE IS DOING PROGRAMMING,
HE IS LEARNING HOW TO DO,
HOW TO WRITE PROGRAMS,
SO I CAN'T WAIT UNTIL THEY
BOTH GET TOGETHER.
IT COULD BE BILL GATES
ALL OVER AGAIN, WHO KNOWS?
I HOPE.
TOOUT
THE "DIGITAL DIVIDE" SERIES,
VISIT PBS ONLINE